# @tinacms/schema-tools

## 0.1.3

### Patch Changes

- 9183157c4: This allows us to use a leaner `define` function for the standalone config. Right now we're balancing a lot on the `defineSchema/defineConfig` types and have a few overlapping things like `client`, which accepts both an optional object with `referenceDepth` config as well as the autogenerated http client.

  One thing it does that's a bit different is it uses the `apiUrl` from the client generation function and sends it through as a global constant to the Vite app, this avoids the need for the generated `client`.

- 4adf12619: Add support for experimental iframe mode
- f8b89379c: Fixed an issue with windows paths not working.

## 0.1.2

### Patch Changes

- 777b1e08a: add better error messages for duplicate values in zod

## 0.1.1

### Patch Changes

- 59ff1bb10: fix: fix collection fetching when paths overlap
- 232ae6d52: Added better checks for name field in schema
- fd4d8c8ff: Add `router` property on collections. This replaces the need for using the RouteMapper plugin.

  ```ts
  ...
    name: 'post',
    path: 'posts',
    ui: {
      router: ({ document }) => {
        // eg. post items can be previewed at posts/hello-world
        return `/posts/${document._sys.filename}`;
      },
    },
  ...
  ```

  Add `global` property on collections. This replaces the need for `formifyCallback` in most cases

  ```ts
  ...
    name: 'post',
    path: 'posts',
    ui: {
      global: true
    },
  ...
  ```

- 9e5da3103: Add router to default schema

## 0.1.0

### Minor Changes

- 7b0dda55e: Updates to the `rich-text` component as well the shape of the `rich-text` field response from the API

  - Adds support for isTitle on MDX elements
  - Fixes issues related to nested marks
  - Uses monaco editor for code blocks
  - Improves styling of nested list items
  - Improves handling of rich-text during reset
  - No longer errors on unrecognized JSX/html, instead falls back to print `No component provided for <compnonent name>`
  - No longer errors on markdown parsing errors, instead falls back to rendering markdown as a string, customizable via the TinaMarkdown component (invalid_markdown prop)
  - Prepares rich-text component for raw mode - where you can edit the raw markdown directly in the Tina form. This will be available in future release.

### Patch Changes

- 8183b638c: ## Adds a new "Static" build option.

  This new option will build tina into a static `index.html` file. This will allow someone to use tina without having react as a dependency.

  ### How to update

  1.  Add a `.tina/config.{js,ts,tsx,jsx}` with the default export of define config.

  ```ts
  // .tina/config.ts
  import schema from './schema'

  export default defineConfig({
    schema: schema,
    //.. Everything from define config in `schema.ts`
    //.. Everything from `schema.config`
  })
  ```

  2. Add Build config

  ```
  .tina/config.ts

  export default defineConfig({
     build: {
       outputFolder: "admin",
       publicFolder: "public",
    },
    //... other config
  })
  ```

  3. Go to `http://localhost:3000/admin/index.html` and view the admin

## 0.0.9

### Patch Changes

- 870a32f18: This PR adds the new generated client, a new build command and introduces a new path of working with tina.

  # How to upgrade

  ## Updates to schema.ts

  Instead of passing an ApiURL, now the clientId, branch and read only token (NEW) will all be configured in the schema. The local url will be used if the --local flag is passed.

  This will require a change to the schema and the scripts.

  ```diff
  // .tina/schema.ts

  + import { client } from "./__generated__/client";

  // ...

  const schema = defineSchema({
  +    config: {
  +        branch: "main",
  +        clientId: "***",
  +        token: "***",
      },
      collections: [
          // ...
      ]
  })

  // ...
  - const branch = process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_VERCEL_GIT_COMMIT_REF
  - const clientId = 'YOUR-CLIENT-ID-HERE'
  - const apiURL =
  -   process.env.NODE_ENV == 'development'
  -     ? 'http://localhost:4001/graphql'
  -    : `https://content.tinajs.io/content/${clientId}/github/${branch}`
  export const tinaConfig = defineConfig({
  +  client,
  -  apiURl,
    schema,
    // ...
  })

  export default schema
  ```

  The token must be a wildcard token (`*`) and can be generated from the tina dashboard. [Read more hear](https://tina.io/docs/graphql/read-only-tokens/)

  ## Updates to scripts in package.json

  We now recommend separating the graphQL server into two separate processes (two separate terminals in development). The scripts should look like this:

  ```json
  {
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "tinacms build --local && next dev",
      "dev-server": "tinacms server:start",
      "build": "tinacms build && next build"
      // ... Other Scripts
    }
  }
  ```

  When developing, in the first terminal run `yarn dev-server` and then `yarn dev` in the second.

  The old `-c` subcommand can still be used. This will start the dev server and next dev process in the same terminal.

  ```json
  {
    "scripts": {
      "dev": "tinacms server:start \"tinacms build --local && next dev\"",
      "dev-server": "tinacms server:start",
      "build": "tinacms build && next build"
      // ... Other Scripts
    }
  }
  ```

  ## Updates to generated files

  We now recommend ignoring most of the generated files. This is because `client.ts` and `types.ts` will be generated in CI with `tinacms build`

  To remove them from your repository, run `git rm --cached .tina/__generated__/*` and then `yarn tinacms build` to update the generated files that need to stay.

- 660247b6b: Throw an error message when name contains spaces

## 0.0.8

### Patch Changes

- b0dfc6205: Fixed bug where objects where not being copied

## 0.0.7

### Patch Changes

- 7d87eb6b7: Add `loadCustomStore` to top schema config
- 67e291e56: Add support for ES modules
- ae23e9ad6: Remove unused deps from monorepo

## 0.0.6

### Patch Changes

- fb73fb355: Renames syncFolder to a mediaRoot when configuring Repo-Based Media

## 0.0.5

### Patch Changes

- f6cb634c2: Added an optional config key to the schema that will be used for tina cloud media store

## 0.0.4

### Patch Changes

- 6e2ed31a2: Added `isTitle` property to the schema that allows the title to be displayed in the CMS

## 0.0.3

### Patch Changes

- 921709a7e: Adds validation to the schema instead of only using typescript types

## 0.0.2

### Patch Changes

- abf25c673: The schema can now to used on the frontend (optional for now but will be the main path moving forward).

  ### How to migrate.

  If you gone though the `tinacms init` process there should be a file called `.tina/components/TinaProvider`. In that file you can import the schema from `schema.ts` and add it to the TinaCMS wrapper component.

  ```tsx
  import TinaCMS from 'tinacms'
  import schema, { tinaConfig } from '../schema.ts'

  // Importing the TinaProvider directly into your page will cause Tina to be added to the production bundle.
  // Instead, import the tina/provider/index default export to have it dynamially imported in edit-moode
  /**
   *
   * @private Do not import this directly, please import the dynamic provider instead
   */
  const TinaProvider = ({ children }) => {
    return (
      <TinaCMS {...tinaConfig} schema={schema}>
        {children}
      </TinaCMS>
    )
  }

  export default TinaProvider
  ```

- 801f39f62: Update types
- e8b0de1f7: Add `parentTypename` to fields to allow us to disambiguate between fields which have the same field names but different types. Example, an event from field name of `blocks.0.title` could belong to a `Cta` block or a `Hero` block, both of which have a `title` field.
